hello my name is Ubaldo Acosta. I hope
you're ready to begin. Let's review the
general agenda of the Servlets and JSP's
course. Are you ready? let's go
Starting: Introduction to web
applications. In this section we'll study
an introduction to web applications,
we'll review a 3-layer architecture
and the role of web applications in Java,
we'll also review the process of an HTTP
request in a web application. We'll also
carry out the installation of the tools
we're going to use throughout the course
and we'll create a first HelloWorld
project with Servlets. Knowing the basis.
Basic Concepts of Servlets.
In this section we'll review the Servlets
concept, the role of this technology in
an enterprise Java application, as well
as the functions performed by a Servlet
We'll review the life cycle of a servlet.
We'll see some methods of the HTTP
protocol like GET and POST, which will
use a lot in the servlet programming.
We'll do an exercise to put these
concepts into practice. Client-Server
Interaction. Session Management with
Servlets. We'll review the concept of HTTP
Sessions. We'll see the forms offered by
the servlet API for the management of a
session. We'll create an exercise of a
shopping car to put this topic into
practice
Starting with JSP's. Introduction to JSP's.
In this section we'll analyze an
introduction to JavaServer Pages
technology or better known as JSP. We'll
study the benefits of using JSP
compared to Servlets. We'll see the role
of the JSP technology in a Java Web
application.
Likewise, we'll review the lifecycle of
the JSP. We'll carry out an exercise to
put into practice the use of the JSP
More Topics:
JavaBeans in JSP's and more topics. In this
section we'll study several of the
elements that we'll use with a JSP's
We'll also review the concept of
directives in JSP, the inclusion of files
and the use of JavaBeans in the JSP's. We'll create several exercises to
put all these concepts into practice.
Advanced: Advanced Topics on Servlets and
JSP's. We'll see several advanced topics
of Servlets and JSP's since we'll begin
to integrate these technologies to
create a robust presentation layer for
our enterprise and web applications with
Java. Will also see topics such as
Expression Language (EL) of the JSP's as
well as the JSTL library of the JSP's
We'll do several exercises to put
these concepts into practice. Java
Architecture. MVC Design Pattern using
Servlets and JSP's. We'll review the MVC
(Model-View-Controller) design pattern
which will be the basis for structuring
our presentation layer for our web
applications with Java using Servlets
technology and JSP's. We'll see what
role each technology plays in this
design pattern and we will create an
exercise to pull this concept into
practice. Integrating All. Creation of
real-world web Application. We'll create
an application called a Student
Management System (SMS) which will integrate
everything seen in the course, from basic
topics to more advanced topics of
Servlets and JSP's. This application will
have a 3-layer Architecture and we'll
perfectly define the role of each
technology in this practical application,
which will serve as the basis for your
own Java Web Applications using Servlets
and JSP's. Broadly speaking, this is the
general agenda of the course Servlets
and JSP's. These are just some of the many
more topics that we'll learn throughout
this course. So, if you're ready, let's
begin :)